title DL_POLY: Valinomycin Test Case

io_file_config                CONFIG
io_file_field                 FIELD
io_file_statis                STATIS
io_file_revive                REVIVE
io_file_revcon                REVCON
io_file_cor                   COR
temperature                   295.0 K
initial_minimum_separation    0.0 ang
print_frequency               500 steps
stats_frequency               1000 steps
rdf_print                     ON
rdf_calculate                 ON
rdf_frequency                 10 steps
vdw_cutoff                    10.0 ang
padding                       0.3 ang
cutoff                        21.0 ang
coul_method                   force_shifted
ensemble                      nvt
ensemble_method               hoover
ensemble_thermostat_coupling  0.5 ps
time_run                      10000 steps
time_equilibration            500 steps
time_job                      3600.0 s
time_close                    100.0 s
timestep                      0.001 ps
pressure_hydrostatic          0.0 katm
rescale_frequency             1 steps
shake_tolerance               1e-08 ang
traj_calculate                ON
traj_start                    500 steps
traj_interval                 100 steps
traj_key                      pos
