title SPC model water in cubic cell

io_file_config                  CONFIG
io_file_field                   FIELD
io_file_statis                  STATIS
io_file_revive                  REVIVE
io_file_revcon                  REVCON
temperature                     295.0 K
print_frequency                 100 steps
stats_frequency                 100 steps
rdf_print                       ON
rdf_calculate                   ON
rdf_frequency                   10 steps
padding                         0.3 ang
cutoff                          8.0 ang
ensemble                        npt
ensemble_method                 hoover
ensemble_thermostat_coupling    0.5 ps
ensemble_barostat_coupling      0.5 ps
time_run                        5000 steps
time_equilibration              1000 steps
time_job                        900.0 s
time_close                      200.0 s
timestep                        0.0005 ps
pressure_hydrostatic            0.0 katm
rescale_frequency               10 steps
stack_size                      100 steps
equilibration_force_cap         10000.0 k_B.temp/ang
shake_tolerance                 1e-05 ang
