.. This  lists a range of tutorial exercises listed as ' low difficulty' copied directly from ftp://ftp.dl.ac.uk/ccp5/DL_POLY/DL_POLY_5.0/TUTORIAL/

   
Absorption of formic acid onto a calcite surface
================================================

Summary
-------

This exercise explores the ability of simple molecules to absorb onto a
surface. This simulation omits water entirely, which is a serious
over-simplification since the local structure of the water near the
surface is seriously perturbed by the presence of organic molecules and
this has a strong effect on the absorption behaviour. However, the
simulation illustrates the basic idea of how a simulation of this kind
is done.

Background
----------

.. figure:: ./exe9-calcite.png
   :alt: Formic acid absorption on a calcite surface
   :name: fig:formic
   :width: 49.0%

   Formic acid absorption on a calcite surface

Formic (methanoic) acid is a small molecule with COOH as the functional
group. Arrays of such groups are readily formed when self-assembled
monolayers are made from long alkane chains with a thiol linkage at one
end (which readily bonds onto a gold surface) and a carboxylic acid
group at the other. A considerable amount of experimental data is
available to show that arrays of such molecules can control which
surface of calcite is formed against the array and hence the orientation
of growth of the calcite crystal, see . Molecules like this are also a
useful test for force-fields to be used for peptides and proteins. This
study cannot hope to address all the issues relevant even to simple
absorption. We have already mentioned one of the most important - in
aqueous solutions absorption requires the displacement of a water
molecule so the ability to bind *in vacuo* is not necessarily a guide to
whether the molecule will bind in solution. However, the simulation does
illustrate some issues in absorption calculations.

Task
----

#. Copy or download the following files:  :download:`CONFIG <./CONFIG>` :download:`FIELD <./FIELD>` :download:`CONTROL <./CONTROL>`

#. Display the system using the *CONFIG* file. Note
   the structural features: the COOH group of the acid which binds to
   the surface and the structure of the surface itself. This is the flat
   (10.4) surface of calcite. This is modelled as a slab. You might like
   to consider how the molecule would attach to a more complex surface
   including a step or a kink; also how you could set up a slab
   configuration for a more complex surface. Take a look at the
   *FIELD* file and see how the intramolecular terms of the formic
   acid molecule are specified: bonds, valence angle and dihedral angle
   potentials are described. (These are based on the AMBER force field.)
   It should give you some idea about how to specify more complex
   molecules.

#. Run a simulation starting with this *CONFIG* file. What you
   are looking for is an indication that the formic acid molecule
   recognises the presence of the surface and is drawn closer to it.
   Visualise the final structure in the *REVCON* file and
   compare it with the starting structure in the *CONFIG* file.

#. Why does a neutral molecule like formic acid have an affinity for a
   surface like calcite? What structural features are responsible? Would
   it make a difference if you turned the molecule around so that the
   carboxylate group was pointing away from the surface? 
   What does this tell you about starting configurations in more complex
   problems?

#. Replicate the molecule on the surface and make a small array of
   formic acid molecules. Note that you will need to adjust the *FIELD*
   file (by editing the *FIELD* file) to give the correct number of
   molecules. What effect does the replication have?

#. What happens if you remove a :math:`CaCO_3` unit from the surface to
   create a surface defect? 

#. Determine the MSD for the :math:`C_2` and :math:`C_1` atoms (either 
   from the *OUPUT* file or by analysing the *HISTORY* file). You should 
   be able to tell easily which molecules are diffusing in the system.

#. Write a simple routine to count the number of hydrogen bonds during
   the simulation. A reasonable criterion for a hydrogen bond is when
   the :math:`O-H` distance is less than 0.25 nm. The data you require
   is in the *HISTORY* file. Bear in mind that :math:`O-H` covalent
   bonds don’t count!

A small film of the simulation can be seen on youtube at
https://youtu.be/Ojw_LJNR9f8.

